# API Design Guidelines
API命名原則,來源網址如下.   
https://swift.org/documentation/api-design-guidelines/

## Table of Contents
* Fundamentals
* Naming
    * Promote Clear Usage
    * Strive for Fluent Usage
    * Use Terminology Well
* Conventions
    * General Conventions
    * Parameters
    * Argument Labels
* Special Instructions

## Fundamentals(基礎)
* Clarity at the point of use is your most important goal. Entities such as methods and properties are declared only once but used repeatedly. Design APIs to make those uses clear and concise. When evaluating a design, reading a declaration is seldom sufficient; always examine a use case to make sure it looks clear in context.(在使用上清晰明確是最重要的點.函數跟屬性只被宣告一次但是會一直重複被使用.簡潔地清晰地設計API.當評估一個設計,很少地閱讀宣告;總是檢查內容是明確的的.) 
* Clarity is more important than brevity. Although Swift code can be compact, it is a non-goal to enable the smallest possible code with the fewest characters. Brevity in Swift code, where it occurs, is a side-effect of the strong type system and features that naturally reduce boilerplate.(清晰比簡短還重要.雖然swift語言是緊湊的,他不是以最小最少字數為目標.Swift代碼的簡潔性是因為它的強類型系統以及自然地減少樣板的副作用) 
* Write a documentation comment for every declaration. Insights gained by writing documentation can have a profound impact on your design, so don’t put it off.(為每一個宣告寫文件註解.透過寫文件撰寫可以對你的API設計有深遠的影響,所以不要關閉它)

> If you are having trouble describing your API’s functionality in simple terms, you may have designed the wrong API.(如果你不能簡單的描述你的API,你也許設計了錯誤的API)

-  
	* Use Swift’s dialect of Markdown.(使用Markdown語言,參考連結) 		
	* Begin with a summary that describes the entity being declared. Often, an API can be completely understood from its declaration and its summary.(這個實體被宣告開始地方描述概要,通常從宣告跟描述概要可以完全了解一個API,範例如下)

```

		//Returns a "view" of 'self' containing the same elements in.
		//reverse order. 
		func reversed() -> ReverseCollection. 
		
```   
- 
	* Focus on the summary; it’s the most important part. Many excellent documentation comments consist of nothing more than a great summary.(重點總結,這是最重要的.大多數優秀的文件註解都是比較’精’,少的) 
	* Use a single sentence fragment if possible, ending with a period. Do not use a complete sentence.(使用簡短的片段,不要使用完整的句子) 
	* Describe what a function or method does and what it returns, omitting null effects and Void returns:(敘述函數功能和回傳,忽略沒作用的null和void回傳,範例如下)


```
 //Inserts 'newHead' at the beginning of 'self'.
mutating func prepend(_ newHead: Int)
 
// Returns a 'List' containing 'head' followed by the elements
// of 'self'.
func prepending(_ head: Element) -> List
 
// Removes and returns the first element of 'self' if non-empty;
// returns 'nil' otherwise.
mutating func popFirst() -> Element?

```
 
  Note: in rare cases like popFirst above, the summary is formed of multiple sentence fragments separated by semicolons.

- 
	* Describe what a subscript accesses:

```
 // Accesses the 'index'th element.
subscript(index: Int) -> Element { get set }

```
- 
	* Describe what an initializer creates:

```
 // Creates an instance containing 'n' repetitions of 'x'.
init(count n: Int, repeatedElement x: Element)

```
- 
	* For all other declarations, describe what the declared entity is.
	
```
 	// A collection that supports equally efficient insertion/removal
	// at any position.
	struct List {
	 
	// The element at the beginning of 'self', or 'nil' if self is
	// empty.
	var first: Element?
	...
	
```


* Optionally, continue with one or more paragraphs and bullet items. Paragraphs are separated by blank lines and use complete sentences.

```

// Writes the textual representation of each    ← Summary
// element of 'items' to the standard output.
//                                              ← Blank line
// The textual representation for each item 'x' ← Additional discussion
// is generated by the expression 'String(x)'.
//
// - Parameter separator: text to be printed    ⎫
//   between items.                             ⎟
// - Parameter terminator: text to be printed   ⎬ Parameters section
//   at the end.                                ⎟
//                                              ⎭
// - Note: To print without a trailing          ⎫
//   newline, pass 'terminator: ""'             ⎟
//                                              ⎬ Symbol commands
// - SeeAlso: 'CustomDebugStringConvertible',   ⎟
//   'CustomStringConvertible', 'debugPrint'.   ⎭
public func print(
  _ items: Any..., separator: String = " ", terminator: String = "\n")

```

  
## Naming

### Promote Clear Usage

* Include all the words needed to avoid ambiguity for a person reading code where the name is used.(為了人們閱讀程式碼時必須包含所有的字避免模糊不清範例如下) For example, consider a method that removes the element at a given position within a collection.(插入一個元素at位置)

```
 	extension List {
		public mutating func remove(at position: Index) -> Element
	}
	employees.remove(at: x)
	
```
  If we were to omit the word `at` from the method signature, it could imply to the reader that the method searches for and removes an element equal to `x`, rather than using `x` to indicate the position of the element to remove.(如果沒有at會誤認移除x)

```
 employees.remove(x) // unclear: are we removing x?

```
    
* Omit needless words. Every word in a name should convey salient information at the use site.(忽略不重要的字,必須傳達給使用者突出的訊息)

 More words may be needed to clarify intent or disambiguate meaning, but those that are redundant with information the reader already possesses should be omitted. In particular, omit words that merely repeat type information.

```
 public mutating func removeElement(_ member: Element) -> Element?
 
allViews.removeElement(cancelButton)
	
```
  In this case, the word `Element` adds nothing salient at the call site. This API would be better:

```
 public mutating func remove(_ member: Element) -> Element?
 
allViews.remove(cancelButton) // clearer

```

### Strive for Fluent Usage(流利的用法)
* Prefer method and function names that make use sites form grammatical English phrases.(從使用者的角度去設計function語法,範例如下)

```
 x.insert(y, at: z)          "x, insert y at z"
x.subViews(havingColor: y)  "x's subviews having color y"
x.capitalizingNouns()       "x, capitalizing nouns"

```

```
 x.insert(y, position: z)
x.subViews(color: y)
x.nounCapitalize()

```
  It is acceptable for fluency to degrade after the first argument or two when those arguments are not central to the call’s meaning:(在第一或是第二參數不是用來強調function本身的可以接受降低流利性)

``` AudioUnit.instantiate(
   with: description, 
   options: [.inProcess], completionHandler: stopProgressBar)
   
```
   
* Begin names of factory methods with “make”, e.g. `x.makeIterator()`.  
* The first argument to initializer and factory methods calls should not form a phrase starting with the base name, e.g. `x.makeWidget(cogCount: 47)`.   
 For example, the first arguments to the these calls do not read as part of the same phrase as the base name:(看不懂在說什麼).   

```
 let foreground = Color(red: 32, green: 64, blue: 128)
let newPart = factory.makeWidget(gears: 42, spindles: 14)
let ref = Link(target: destination)

```

 In the following, the API author has tried to create grammatical continuity with the first argument.(比較有連續性的標籤取名法)

```
 let foreground = Color(havingRGBValuesRed: 32, green: 64, andBlue: 128)    
let newPart = factory.makeWidget(havingGearCount: 42, andSpindleCount: 14).   
let ref = Link(to: destination).  

```
 In practice, this guideline along with those for argument labels means the first argument will have a label unless the call is performing a value preserving type conversion.   

	let rgbForeground = RGBColor(cmykForeground). 
    
* Name functions and methods according to their side-effects(function取名以及作用) 
    * Those without side-effects should read as noun phrases, e.g. `x.distance(to: y), i.successor()`. (沒有副作用的function使用名詞的形式) 
    * Those with side-effects should read as imperative verb phrases, e.g., `print(x), x.sort(), x.append(y)`.(有副作用的要取名為動詞) 
    * Name Mutating/nonmutating method pairs consistently. A mutating method will often have a nonmutating variant with similar semantics, but that returns a new value rather than updating an instance in-place.(通常變更的function會返回新的執不會變更原本的instance)
        * When the operation is naturally described by a verb, use the verb’s imperative for the mutating method and apply the “ed” or “ing” suffix to name its nonmutating counterpart.(會變動的使用一般動詞,不會變動的加上”ed” or “ing”)

	Mutating  | Nonmutating
	--------- | ------------
	x.sort()	|	z = x.sorted()
	x.append(y) |	z = x.appending(y)

-  
	* Prefer to name the nonmutating variant using the verb’s past participle (usually appending “ed”)(不變動的偏好使用過去式):
	
```
 // Reverses 'self' in-place.
mutating func reverse()
    
// Returns a reversed copy of 'self'.
func reversed() -> Self
...
x.reverse()
let y = x.reversed()

```

- 
	* When adding "ed" is not grammatical because the verb has a direct object, name the nonmutating variant using the verb's present participle, by appending "ing."(使用ed不是文法的關係,因為動詞表示有一個直接物件,所以表示不變動的使用ing)  

```
 	// Strips all the newlines from 'self'
	mutating func stripNewlines()
	    
	/// Returns a copy of 'self' with all the newlines stripped.
	func strippingNewlines() -> String
	...
	s.stripNewlines()
	let oneLine = t.strippingNewlines()
	
```
            
 * When the operation is naturally described by a noun, use the noun for the nonmutating method and apply the “form” prefix to name its mutating counterpart.(當function被名詞描述的話請在前面加上form修飾表示會變動)
 
	Nonmutating	|	Mutating
	----------- | -------------
	x = y.union(z)	|	y.formUnion(z)
	j = c.successor(i)	|	c.formSuccessor(&i)

* 	Uses of Boolean methods and properties should read as assertions about the receiver when the use is nonmutating, e.g. x.isEmpty, line1.intersects(line2).(當使用boolean的function或是properties需要被讀起來像是斷言) 
* Protocols that describe what something is should read as nouns (e.g. Collection).(protocols必須是名詞) 
* Protocols that describe a capability should be named using the suffixes able, ible, or ing (e.g. Equatable, ProgressReporting).(一個描述能力的protocols必須使用able, ible或 ing當作後綴) 
* The names of other types, properties, variables, and constants should read as nouns.(型態,properties,變數,常數必須是名詞) 
### Use Terminology Well(使用好的專業術語)
>Term of Art
>>noun - a word or phrase that has a precise, specialized meaning within a particular field or profession.
* Avoid obscure terms if a more common word conveys meaning just as well. Don’t say “epidermis” if “skin” will serve your purpose. Terms of art are an essential communication tool, but should only be used to capture crucial meaning that would otherwise be lost.(避免使用模糊的專業術語,如果另一個更常見的詞也可以傳達意義) 
* Stick to the established meaning if you do use a term of art.（如果堅持要使用專業術語) The only reason to use a technical term rather than a more common word is that it precisely expresses something that would otherwise be ambiguous or unclear. Therefore, an API should use the term strictly in accordance with its accepted meaning.(唯一使用專業術語的原因是常見詞可能會模糊意義,才使用嚴格的專業術語)
    * Don’t surprise an expert: anyone already familiar with the term will be surprised and probably angered if we appear to have invented a new meaning for it.(不要嚇到專家,如果我們使用一個詞的新意義而大家都不熟悉,可能會讓人生氣) 
    * Don’t confuse a beginner: anyone trying to learn the term is likely to do a web search and find its traditional meaning.(不要混淆初學者,大家都會上網查詢字詞的傳統意義)  
* Avoid abbreviations. Abbreviations, especially non-standard ones, are effectively terms-of-art, because understanding depends on correctly translating them into their non-abbreviated forms.   
* The intended meaning for any abbreviation you use should be easily found by a web search.(避免使用非標準縮寫,縮寫必須容易被理解會是可以透過網路搜尋到). 

* Embrace precedent. Don’t optimize terms for the total beginner at the expense of conformance to existing culture. It is better to name a contiguous data structure Array than to use a simplified term such as List, even though a beginner might grasp of the meaning of List more easily. Arrays are fundamental in modern computing, so every programmer knows—or will soon learn—what an array is. Use a term that most programmers are familiar with, and their web searches and questions will be rewarded. Within a particular programming domain, such as mathematics, a widely precedented term such as sin(x) is preferable to an explanatory phrase such as verticalPositionOnUnitCircleAtOriginOfEndOfRadiusWithAngle(x). Note that in this case, precedent outweighs the guideline to avoid abbreviations: although the complete word is sine, “sin(x)” has been in common use among programmers for decades, and among mathematicians for centuries.  
## Conventions(慣例)
### General Conventions
* Document the complexity of any computed property that is not O(1). People often assume that property access involves no significant computation, because they have stored properties as a mental model. Be sure to alert them when that assumption may be violated.(紀錄並且告知使用者計算屬性的複雜程度呼叫需要花費資源) 
* Prefer methods and properties to free functions. Free functions are used only in special cases:(盡量使用方法跟屬性)
    1. When there’s no obvious self:   
    `min(x, y, z)`.  
    2. When the function is an unconstrained generic:   
    `print(x)`.  
    3. When function syntax is part of the established domain notation:  
    `sin(x)`.   
* Follow case conventions. Names of types and protocols are UpperCamelCase. Everything else is lowerCamelCase.(型別根協定都用UpperCamelCase其他使用lowerCamelCase) Acronyms and initialisms that commonly appear as all upper case in American English should be uniformly up- or down-cased according to case conventions:(慣例使用大寫的字或是縮寫依照慣例使用習慣大寫或是小寫)

```
 var utf8Bytes: [UTF8.CodeUnit]
var isRepresentableAsASCII = true
var userSMTPServer: SecureSMTPServer

```
 Other acronyms should be treated as ordinary words:

```
 var radarDetector: RadarScanner
var enjoysScubaDiving = true

```

* Methods can share a base name when they share the same basic meaning or when they operate in distinct domains.(方法可以共享一樣的名字).  
 For example, the following is encouraged, since the methods do essentially the same things:  


```
 extension Shape {
  // Returns `true` iff `other` is within the area of `self`.
  func contains(_ other: Point) -> Bool { ... }

  // Returns `true` iff `other` is entirely within the area of `self`.
  func contains(_ other: Shape) -> Bool { ... }

  // Returns `true` iff `other` is within the area of `self`.
  func contains(_ other: LineSegment) -> Bool { ... }
}

```
 And since geometric types and collections are separate domains, this is also fine in the same program:  

```
 extension Collection where Element : Equatable {
   /// Returns 'true' iff 'self' contains an element equal to
   /// 'sought'.
   func contains(_ sought: Element) -> Bool { ... }
 }
 
```

 However, these `index` methods have different semantics, and should have been named differently:  


```
 extension Database {
   // Rebuilds the database's search index
   func index() { ... }
 
   // Returns the 'n'th row in the given table.
   func index(_ n: Int, inTable: TableID) -> TableRow { ... }
 } 
 
```
 
Lastly, avoid “overloading on return type” because it causes ambiguities in the presence of type inference.

```
 extension Box {
   // Returns the 'Int' stored in 'self', if any, and
   // 'nil' otherwise.
   func value() -> Int? { ... }
 
   // Returns the 'String' stored in 'self', if any, and
   // 'nil' otherwise.
   func value() -> String? { ... }
 }
 
```
    
## Parameters
`func move(from start: Point, to end: Point)`  
* Choose parameter names to serve documentation. Even though parameter names do not appear at a function or method’s point of use, they play an important explanatory role.  
Choose these names to make documentation easy to read. For example, these names make documentation read naturally:(顯示參數名字在文件中可以幫助人更了解使用方法).  

```
 
// Return an 'Array' containing the elements of 'self'
// that satisfy 'predicate'.
 func filter(_ predicate: (Element) -> Bool) -> [Generator.Element]
 
// Replace the given 'subRange' of elements with 'newElements'.
 mutating func replaceRange(_ subRange: Range, with newElements: [E])
 
```
  These, however, make the documentation awkward and ungrammatical:(這是不通順的範例). 


```
 // Return an 'Array' containing the elements of 'self'
// that satisfy 'includedInResult'.
func filter(_ includedInResult: (Element) -> Bool) -> [Generator.Element]

// Replace the range of elements indicated by 'r' with
// the contents of 'with'.
mutating func replaceRange(_ r: Range, with: [E])

```

* Take advantage of defaulted parameters when it simplifies common uses. Any parameter with a single commonly-used value is a candidate for a default.(使用默認參數的好處).  
Default arguments improve readability by hiding irrelevant information. For example:   

```
 let order = lastName.compare(
   royalFamilyName, options: [], range: nil, locale: nil)
   
```
 can become the much simpler:   
`let order = lastName.compare(royalFamilyName)`

 Default arguments are generally preferable to the use of method families, because they impose a lower cognitive burden on anyone trying to understand the API.(使用默認參數可以降低使用者認知的負擔)


```

extension String {
   // ...description...
   public func compare(
      _ other: String, options: CompareOptions = [],
      range: Range? = nil, locale: Locale? = nil
   ) -> Ordering
 }

```

The above may not be simple, but it is much simpler than:   


```

extension String {
   // ...description 1...
   public func compare(_ other: String) -> Ordering
   // ...description 2...
   public func compare(_ other: String, options: CompareOptions) -> Ordering
   // ...description 3...
   public func compare(
      _ other: String, options: CompareOptions, range: Range) -> Ordering
   // ...description 4...
   public func compare(
      _ other: String, options: StringCompareOptions,
      range: Range, locale: Locale) -> Ordering
 }
 
```
   Every member of a method family needs to be separately documented and understood by users. To decide among them, a user needs to understand all of them, and occasional surprising relationships—for example, foo(bar: nil) and foo() aren’t always synonyms—make this a tedious process of ferreting out minor differences in mostly identical documentation. Using a single method with defaults provides a vastly superior programmer experience.(每個參數必須分別記錄起來)   

   
* Prefer to locate parameters with defaults toward the end of the parameter list. Parameters without defaults are usually more essential to the semantics of a method, and provide a stable initial pattern of use where methods are invoked.(默認參數通常擺放到最後面).  

## Argument Labels

```

func move(from start: Point, to end: Point)
x.move(from: x, to: y) 

```

* Omit all labels when arguments can’t be usefully distinguished, e.g.   
 `min(number1, number2), zip(sequence1, sequence2)`.(當標籤沒有用處或是不突出可以全部省略) 
* In initializers that perform value preserving type conversions, omit the first argument label, e.g. `Int64(someUInt32)`(初始化時候可以省略第一個標籤)   
The first argument should always be the source of the conversion.(通常第一個參數都是來源)

```
 extension String {
   // Convert 'x' into its textual representation in the given radix
   init(_ x: BigInt, radix: Int = 10)   ← Note the initial underscore
 }
 
 text = "The value is: "
 text += String(veryLargeNumber)
 text += " and in hexadecimal, it's"
 text += String(veryLargeNumber, radix: 16)

```
  In “narrowing” type conversions, though, a label that describes the narrowing is recommended.(推薦使用label去描述參數範例如下)

```
 extension UInt32 {
   // Creates an instance having the specified 'value'.
   init(_ value: Int16)            ← Widening, so no label
   // Creates an instance having the lowest 32 bits of 'source'.
   init(truncating source: UInt64)
   // Creates an instance having the nearest representable
   // approximation of 'valueToApproximate'.
   init(saturating valueToApproximate: UInt64)
 }

```



>A value preserving type conversion is a monomorphism, i.e. every difference in the value of the source results in a difference in the value of the result. For example, conversion from `Int8` to `Int64` is value preserving because every distinct `Int8` value is converted to a distinct `Int64` value. Conversion in the other direction, however, cannot be value preserving: `Int64` has more possible values than can be represented in an `Int8`.

>Note: the ability to retrieve the original value has no bearing on whether a conversion is value preserving.  

* When the first argument forms part of a prepositional phrase, give it an argument label. The argument label should normally begin at the preposition, e.g.  
`x.removeBoxes(havingLength: 12)`.   
An exception arises when the first two arguments represent parts of a single abstraction.(如果一次是影響兩個參數的敘述會把”to”放在前面範例如下)

```
 a.move(toX: b, y: c)
a.fade(fromRed: b, green: c, blue: d)

```
  In such cases, begin the argument label after the preposition, to keep the abstraction clear.  

```
 
a.moveTo(x: b, y: c)
a.fadeFrom(red: b, green: c, blue: d)

```

* Otherwise, if the first argument forms part of a grammatical phrase, omit its label, appending any preceding words to the base name, e.g. `x.addSubview(y)`(如果第一個參數是語法的一部分則省略標籤並且夾到前面的基本名稱).

 
This guideline implies that if the first argument doesn’t form part of a grammatical phrase, it should have a label.(如果不是的話應該要有標籤)


```
 view.dismiss(animated: false)
let text = words.split(maxSplits: 12)
let studentsByName = students.sorted(isOrderedBefore: Student.namePrecedes)

```
  Note that it’s important that the phrase convey the correct meaning. The following would be grammatical but would express the wrong thing.(語意傳達很重要的以下都是語意不清的範例)

```
 view.dismiss(false) //Don't dismiss? Dismiss a Bool?(這個function可能表達不要解散或是解散一個bool)
words.split(12)     //Split the number 12?(切割12?)

```
  Note also that arguments with default values can be omitted, and in that case do not form part of a grammatical phrase, so they should always have labels.

* Label all other arguments.(其他所有參數都加上標籤). 

 Notice how the new name better matches the documentation comment. In this case, the act of writing the documentation comment actually brought the issue to the API author’s attention.  
